NETOBSERV-1287: rtt blog updates to reflect last changes in ebpf agent (#63)
netobserv/documents: blogs/rtt/index.md

paramount for maintaining seamless communication between applications.
However, challenges like network congestion, misconfigured systems,
or hardware limitations can lead to slow connections, impacting overall
performance. Round Trip Time (RTT), typically measured in milliseconds,
plays a crucial role in monitoring network health and diagnosing issues.

## Implementing Smooth Round-Trip Time (SRTT) with eBPF

The RTT is the time it takes for a packet to travel from the sender to the receiver
and back. In a network, RTT can vary due to factors like network congestion,
varying route lengths, and other dynamic conditions.
SRTT is introduced to provide a more consistent and less jittery representation
of the RTT.

In TCP, RTT is a crucial metric.

Our implementation leverages eBPF to register to `fentry` eBPF hook
for `tcp_rcv_established()`.
We extract the SRTT (smooth round-trip time) value from TCP sockets, correlating it
to existing flows and enriching them with RTT values in nanoseconds.

When a new Netobserv flow is created, and the RTT (Round-Trip Time) feature is enabled,
an initial RTT of `10usec` is assigned.
This initial value for RTT may be considered quite low.

> Upon triggering the eBPF (Extended Berkeley Packet Filter) socket, the flow's RTT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon triggering the eBPF (Extended Berkeley Packet Filter) socket, the RTT flow
```

Reviewer: instead of making flow possessive, I wonder if we can flip it to "RTT flow value"?

value is updated to reflect the maximum RTT value for that specific flow.

> For more detailed  explanation of smoothed RTT estimation,  refer to [Karn's algorithm paper](http://ccr.sigcomm.org/archive/1995/jan95/ccr-9501-partridge87.pdf)

Reviewer: extra space

![TCP based RTT calculations](./images/tcp_rtt_calculations.png)

### Why using `fentry` eBPF hook

> EBPF `fentry` programs have lower overhead as they trigger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The eBPF `fentry` programs have lower overhead as they trigger
```

the hook before calling the kernel function of interest.

In our implementation:

1. Register and link `fentry` hook for kernel's `tcp_rcv_established()`

```cgo
SEC("fentry/tcp_rcv_established")
int BPF_PROG(tcp_rcv_fentry, struct sock *sk, struct sk_buff *skb) {
    if (sk == NULL || skb == NULL) {
        return 0;
    }
    return calculate_flow_rtt_tcp(sk, skb);
}
```

2. Reconstruct the Netobserv flow key, including incoming interface Layer2, Layer3, and Layer4 info.

3. Match existing flows in the PerCPU hashmap flow table and enrich them with srtt info from TCP sockets. If
   multiple SRTT values exist for the same flow, we take the maximum value.

> Currently, our approach calculates RTT only for the TCP packets so flows which are non TCP will not show RTT information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, our approach calculates RTT only for the TCP packets, so flows which are non-TCP do not show RTT information.
```

## Potential Use Cases

Flow RTT capture from eBPF `flow_monitor` hookpoint can serve various purposes:

- Network Monitoring: Gain insights into TCP handshakes, helping
  network administrators identify unusual patterns, potential bottlenecks, or
  performance issues.

- Troubleshooting: Debug TCP-related issues by tracking latency and identifying
  misconfigurations.

## How to Enable RTT

> To enable this feature we need to create a flow collector object with the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable this feature we need to create a Flow Collector object with the following
```

Reviewer: In the docs we always capitalize this, or its in backticks `FlowCollector`, especially when referring to the object.

fields enabled in eBPF config section as below:

> ```yaml
> apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta1
> kind: FlowCollector
> metadata:
>   name: cluster
> spec:
>   agent:
>     type: EBPF
>     ebpf:
>       features:
>         - FlowRTT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      features:
        - FlowRTT
```

Reviewer: I have this in the docs yaml sample...not sure if you should do the same here, but I think that its part of these updates: https://github.com/netobserv/network-observability-operator/pull/511

Author: you are right I will fix it

```

## A Quick Tour in the UI

Once the `FlowRTT` feature is enabled, the OCP console plugin automatically adapts
to provide additional filter and show information across Netflow Traffic page views.

Open your OCP Console and move to
`Administrator view` -> `Observe` -> `Network Traffic` page as usual.

A new filter, `Flow RTT` is available in the common section:

![flow rtt filter](./images/flow_rtt_filter.png)

> It will allow you capture any flow having a RTT more than a specific time in nanoseconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RTT filter allows you capture any flow that has a RTT more than a specific time in nanoseconds.
```

Reviewer: Just a suggestion to avoid future tense "will" and make "It" more specific.

For production users, filtering on the `TCP` protocol, `Ingress` direction,
and looking for `FlowRTT` values greater than 10,000,000 nanoseconds (10ms)
can help identify TCP flows with high latency.
This filtering approach allows users to focus on specific network flows that may
be experiencing significant delays.

> By setting a threshold of 10ms, you can efficiently isolate and address potential

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By setting a threshold of `10ms`, you can efficiently isolate and address potential
```

Reviewer: Just wondering if adding backticks to this value helps add some distinction?

latency issues in your TCP traffic.

### Overview

> New graphs are introduced in the `advanced options` -> `manage panels` popup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New graphs are introduced in the `Advanced options` -> `Manage panels` popup:
```

Reviewer: In the UI, I think these are capitalized. And also, in product docs, we usually [bold UI elements](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-interface-elements), and backticks are reserved for specifications and API objects. This isn't product docs but I just wanted to note that here in case you want to apply the same stylistic consistency.

![advanced options](./images/advanced_options.png)

> - Top X average flow RTT (donut)
> - Top X average flow RTT (lines)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Top X average TCP handshake Round Trip Time with overall (donut or lines)
- Bottom X minimum TCP handshake Round Trip Time with overall (donut or lines)
- Top X maximum TCP handshake Round Trip Time with overall (donut or lines)
- Top X 90th percentile TCP handshake Round Trip Time with overall (donut or lines)
- Top X 99th percentile TCP handshake Round Trip Time with overall (donut or lines)
```

> ![rtt graphs](./images/rtt_graphs.png)

Reviewer 2: We should update these to show min / max / percentile

![image](https://github.com/netobserv/documents/assets/91894519/2dd43bd5-08a9-4983-885a-88aa0440c207)

Author: done

> These two graphs will help you to identify the slowest TCP flows and their trends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These two graphs can help you to identify the slowest TCP flows and their trends
```

over time. Use the filters to drill down into specific pods, namespaces or nodes.

### Traffic flows

The table view shows the `Flow RTT` in both column and side panel.

![rtt table](./images/rtt_table.png)

### Topology

> Last but not least, the topology view displays average `RTT` latency on edges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last but not least, the topology view displays min / max / avg / p90 / p99 `RTT` latency on edges.
```

Clicking on a node or an edge will allow you to see per direction metrics and
the related graph.

![rtt topology](./images/rtt_topology.png)

### Future improvments

Here is a non exhaustive list of future improvements coming for a full featured
Round Trip Time analysis:

> - Max / P90 / P99 graphs
> - Latest / Max RTT in topology view
> - Prometheus metrics and alerting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Latest RTT in topology view
- Prometheus metrics and alerting
```
